In the last lecture, we created our route with a dynamic path segment,
now we want to get access to the data the user sent us or which is encoded in the URL I should
say.
So we know that we will load the user component, user component, this one here
and we know that there will be some data in the URL for us.
How can we get access to it?
Well, it is in the TypeScript file where we can get access and there, we need to inject something we already
injected before, the active route.
So this is again on ActivatedRoute,
so make sure to use this type and import it from @angular/router and by injecting this, we get access to
the currently loaded route.
Now I told you that this currently loaded route is a Javascript object with a lot of metadata about
this currently loaded route, one of this important pieces of information is the currently active user.
Now you see that in this user component,
I already defined a user object at the top which is undefined
for now, it should have the following structure and it's not used right now but we could load our user
by simply
getting access or retrieving this parameter from our URL.
So it would be nice if let's say in ngOnInit when our component gets initialized, we get our user.
So we maybe want to say this user equals and now we assign it to a Javascript object because that is
the type of it, a Javascript object with an ID and with a name. Now the value for the ID can be
fetched from our route
and there, we have a snapshot property
and on this snapshot of our currently active route, we have a params Javascript object
and here we can get our ID
and now you will only have the access to properties here
which you defined in your route parameters.
So this part here,
we named it the ID here so we can retrieve the ID from this params object here.
Now the name is something which is not encoded in the route right now,
so maybe we should do this too.
Let's go to app module and let's simply add another dynamic part here,
:name.
Now we also will get this as a parameter, so we can retrieve it the same way we retrieve the ID,
let's retrieve the name and it's in the same params object because it's all part of the route which
was loaded due to this path
we set up in app module being triggered which holds two dynamic pieces and you can add as many parameters
here as you want,
they will all be retrievable on this params object of the loaded route.
With that, we assign something to our user,
now we could go to our HTML document and output that data.
So with string interpolation, here we could output user ID,
it will now be set, we know that and username maybe, both will be available because we set it in
ngOnInit.
Now this should work, so if we save this and we target /users one, Max maybe so that we have
both the ID and the name and we hit enter, we correctly see ID one, name Max, if we change the ID to three,
we see ID three here.
So this seems to work
and you even see that this is still marked as active because this currently active path still contains
/users which was the route for this link, so this routerLink active directive is still doing its
job.
Now this seems to be working fine,
now let me add something to it which will break it though.
I'll do this in the next lecture.